---
AIP: 8
title: Mission and Broad Roadmap
description: Outlines the purpose and mission of Arrow, and creates a broad roadmap for the next few years.
author: Thomas Garrison ([@thomasgarrison](https://github.com/thomasgarrison))
discussions-to:
status: Final
type: operational
created: 2025-03-17
vote-to: https://snapshot.box/#/s:arrowair.eth/proposal/0xa7e3820cf365d9ab0210d3928b950742b56a8968ed5f342e403ec0314917f46c
vote-date: 2025-04-22
vote-result: Passed
---

## Abstract

This AIP expands on the overall purpose and mission of Arrow, then outlines a high-level explanation on how we will fulfill our mission and what the next few years of product development will look like.

## Specification

The purpose of our organization is to **increase physical connectedness to the people and places you love.** For us, this means anything that will make it easier, faster, or more affordable for people to travel to be with their friends, family, and communities. It also means creating ways for people to live where they want and retain a strong connection to the world around them.

Arrow aims to build purpose-aligned products by fostering a passionate, internet-native organization for anyone and everyone eager to build a more connected world. Through this, we can harness the collective abilities of our community through **unparalleled remote collaboration.**

Arrow conducts all of its work as openly as practical. Anyone in the world who shares our vision can join in and contribute with minimal friction, as long as doing so doesn’t compromise our rate of progress.

The best way Arrow can accomplish this purpose is by adding another layer of transportation infrastructure to fill in existing gaps or shortcomings within the current global network. This new layer of infrastructure will be VTOL aircraft that can transport people and goods, point to point regionally and locally with speed.
<br/>
<br/>


We see a series of stepping stones necessary for us to advance our organization as we pursue our purpose. Each step will build more experience, revenue, and confidence for us as we expand our efforts on the following steps.

We will begin by building and selling small multipurpose drones. This will allow us to demonstrate organizational competence with a project of moderate complexity. We’ll have a chance to find the best methods of remote collaboration while the stakes are lower. We will also get experience in shipping a refined product to customers, with the revenue flowing back to Arrow.

Once those multipurpose drones are refined and flying regularly in the real world, we will seek to certify them for commercial cargo use. This will be Arrow’s first experience interfacing with airspace regulators to bring an aircraft through certification. We will also gain additional revenue and experience running small cargo delivery logistics.

After that, we will build and certify a much larger drone. With a strong foundation from building smaller drones, Arrow will be well prepared to step into a project of much higher complexity and expand our experience with larger systems. This drone can be used to expand our cargo delivery platform as well as other multipurpose uses.

Next, with all of our experience in building and certifying large drones, Arrow will build our first manned aircraft product for general aviation. We’ll target an aircraft with two or four seats to be certified as a light-sport aircraft under the FAA’s MOSAIC rules. This will allow our aircraft to be available to a large number of sport pilots with less training required than other aircraft.

After we’ve delivered our first manned aircraft, we will shift focus towards building an aircraft and platform for air-taxi use. This will be the true mass-market solution that will allow non-pilots to travel with ease.
<br/>
<br/>

In short:

Build small multipurpose drones\
Certify those drones for commercial package delivery\
Build and certify a bigger drone\
Build a manned aircraft\
Build air taxis


##### Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
