---
AIP: 4
title: Introduce Time Commitment Grant
description: A proposal to replace commitment track compensation with a Time Commitment Grant
author: Sleety ([@sl33ty](https://github.com/sl33ty))
discussions-to: https://dao.arrowair.com/t/aip-004-discussion-introduce-time-commitment-grant/37
status: Final
type: operational
created: 2024-09-02
vote-to: https://snapshot.org/#/arrowair.eth/proposal/0x27aab416de44ff27a1c5fc3bff826db6b1e3d7c53a573ee38374cbdfad2f74bf
vote-date: 2024-09-26
vote-result: Passed
---

## Abstract
This AIP proposes a revised purpose, process and definition of the commitment track within Arrow DAO. It also proposes a reduction in base compensation for commitment track recipients.

## Background
Contributions to Arrow DAO began in November 2021. People interested in the project began contributing significant amounts of their time and efforts on an entirely voluntary basis. In May 2022, Arrow recognized that core team working on engineering prototypes, services and growth was difficult to achieve - mostly due to people limited in the (unpaid) time they could contribute. A plan to compensate core team members for their contributions arose. 

These [compensation guidelines](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Mngt2VHdpZgCwRceVHUqXD9ufMx2gninVBPxm0RkXRQ/edit?usp=sharing) have been used since then and contributors who were actively contributing to Arrow in various ways such as building prototypes, attending meetings, participating in discussions, solving organizational problems etc. were allocated funds from the treasury in exchange for their ongoing commitment and availability for synchronous discussions. This compensation scheme is called 'the commitment track' and applications are processed and paid on bimonthly cycle. Contributors receive funds via an onchain streaming platform (initially [Sablier](https://sablier.com), later [LlamaPay](https://llamapay.io)) which is funded bimonthly by their respective working Pods. Each pod applies for funding form the main Arrow treasury (via Snapshot vote) to cover these expenses on a bimonthly basis.

The idea of reducing commitment track compensation was the result of discussion during the Texas meetup [May 2024] on how we could incentivize current and future Arrow contributors to be more accountable in their work. A commitment to increasing the number of bounties was proposed as a good solution, but it surfaced another issue - current commitment track contributors didn't have much of an incentive to create bounties for their own work.

## Motivation
<!---
The motivation section should describe the "why" of this AIP. What problem does it solve? Why should someone want to implement this standard? What benefit does it provide to the Arrow ecosystem? What use cases does this AIP address?
-->

For Arrow to become a decentralized organization of hundreds of active contributors, it must think carefully about the coordination of projects and tasks within the DAO. A cultural shift in the way Arrow works - towards fair reward bounties for thoughtful and important contributions, clearly defined and trackable - is generally agreed to be a good thing. For potential talented contributors seeking to add their expertise to the project in some way, a walled garden of main contributors with little accountability and little incentive to change is not an encouraging place to develop a buzzing community of builders.

The current implementation of this 'recurring payment for x amount of contributor's time' has led to valuable work being completed, however clear definition and traceability of work completed was lacking. Commitment track performance has been rarely reviewed or appraised and applications roll over without critique. The non-hierarchical DAO structure, while advantageous in other areas, presents a challenge for measuring value created, a challenge that should be mitigated by the creation of the [GBC](https://github.com/Arrow-air/dao-aips/blob/Add-aip-004-text/AIPs/AIP-002.md). 

The intention of a base compensation reduction is that Arrow benefits from retained core services that are important for sustainability, but gains a bounty system that can be built to overcome the inefficiencies we've experienced from a largely 'payroll'-type system.

## Specification

### Definition
Commitment track compensation SHALL hereafter be known as a 'Time Commitment Grant'.

### Purpose
The purpose of the **Time Commitment Grant** SHALL be to monetarily recognize and reward high performing, valued and committed contributors to Arrow DAO. This grant SHALL incentivize continued high performance, foster a culture of appreciation, ensure we attract key talent essential for the organization's sustainability and growth. 

### Base Compensation
Current base compensation guidelines can be viewed [here](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1Mngt2VHdpZgCwRceVHUqXD9ufMx2gninVBPxm0RkXRQ/edit?usp=sharing).

Successful Time Commitment Grants SHALL be compensated using the following tables as a guide.

#### Compensation Guidelines

| Expertise Level | Hourly         |
| :-------------- | -------------: |
| `Level 5`       | $75            |
| `Level 4`       | $64            |
| `Level 3`       | $48            |
| `Level 2`       | $34            |
| `Level 1`       | $19            |

#### Weekly and Monthly Commitment Options

| Option          | Hours/wk        | Hours/Month    |
| :-------------- | :-------------- | :------------- |
| 1        | `20 hours`      | `80 hours`     |
| 2        | `16 hours`      | `64 hours`     |
| 3        | `12 hours`      | `48 hours`     |
| 4        | `8 hours`       | `32 hours`     |
| 5        | `4 hours`       | `16 hours`     |

#### Example Time Commitment Combinations

| Expertise Level | Hours/wk       | Hourly         | Monthly        |
| :-------------- | -------------: | -------------: | ------------:  |
| `Level 2`       | 12             | $34            | $1,088         |
| `Level 4`       | 16             | $64            | $1,024         |
| `Level 3`       | 20             | $48            | $3,840         |
| `Level 5`       | 8              | $75            | $2,400         |
| `Level 1`       | 4              | $19            | $304           | 

Note: Hourly rate calculations use 48 weeks (4 weeks for holidays/sickness buffer)

These base hourly rate calculations for expertise levels SHOULD be used as a guide when evaluating a bounty application's cost/benefit analysis.

### Arrow Token Percentage
Time Commitment Grant applicants MUST request a blend of USD and Arrow Tokens EXCEPT when 100% Arrow requested.

Each Time Commitment Grant MUST include a minimum of 10% allocated in Arrow Tokens. Percentages of Arrow requests MUST be in increments of 5%. For example: 10%, 15%, 20%, 25% up to 100%.

Table: Example Time Commitment Grant compensation blends:

| % USD           |  % ARROW     |
| --------------- | -------------|
| 90%             | 10%         |
| 75%             | 25%         |
| 85%             | 15%         |
| 50%             | 50%         |
| 0%              | 100%        |
> Assumption: 1 ARROW = 0.30 cents (USD) for this calculation.

### Calculating ARROW token amounts
Applications are incentivized to receive ARROW token using a multiplier. A **1.5x** multiplier is applied when calculating ARROW token amounts. 

**Example:** 
1. Applicant requests a grant worth **$1000**, with a **80% USDC** + **20% ARROW** blend. 
2. The ARROW amount would be calculated as `1000 * 0.2` i.e. $200 of ARROW token.
3. If the assumption is that 1 ARROW = $0.30, then $200 of ARROW becomes `200 / 0.3` i.e.  **666 ARROW**
4. The multiplier is then applied to be calculated as 666 * 1.5 = 999 ARROW
2. Total amount of grant: $800 + 999 ARROW

## Commitment Track


### Commitment Track Applications
An Application Template SHALL be made publicly available for applicants. Applications SHALL be reviewed between the second and third sunday of the month. 

### GBC Review
The GBC SHALL review every application and respond in a timely manner to the applicant.

### Distribution
The Grants and Bounties Committee is responsible for distributing Time Commitment Grants for each pod directly to its recipients.

- The GBC SHOULD determine the period for payouts and nominate an to communicate this to each applicant.
- By default this is assumed to be monthly, but MAY be increased to ease administrative burden if needed.
- Grants SHOULD be paid out in a blend of Arrow Token and USD, selected by the recipient.
- Conversion from USD to dollar-stablecoin payout token SHOULD be priced 1:1.

## Rationale
A walled garden can arise with a continued reliance on commitment tracks. It can limit or even discourage outside participation, which is contrary to how we aim to achieve our mission.

Arrow may have outgrown it's initial reliance on commitment tracks.

Below are some summarized responses to questions raised during the drafting of this AIP.

### Why not just scrap commitment track entirely and go 100% bounties?
Dedicated members to Arrow deserve to be compensated for their commitment. It is important to have a core of people not be disadvantaged for committing their time and energy to Arrow. 

### Why is base compensation reduction ~50%
 Reductions to 25% (of current base compensation) and 75% (of current base compensation) were also discussed as options. The 25% option seemed too much of a drastic change. The 75% seemed too small of a change to effectively judge the push to bounty incentive.

Ultimately we won't get true feedback until we evaluate our working culture and the output of contributors in the months after the adjustment.

### What type of contributor is eligible for a Time Commitment Grant
Anyone can apply, but they'll need a minimum of three things;
- Respect, decency and engagement within our community.
- Demonstrate an enthusiasm and passion to contribute.
- Demonstrate their ability to problem-solve and collaborate

In addition, applicants must be available and ready to complete the tasks below
- Each of these will be taken into account by GBC when reviewing and scoring applications

### What responsibilities does a contributor on a Time Commitment Grant have?
Examples of tasks that commitment track members may perform regularly that are hard to define into bounties are:
- attending daily meetings
- researching solutions to daily problems
- updating documentation
- internal communication, feedback and comments
- contributing to AIP process
- devoting time to thinking about solutions to problems
- active listening within meetings and reading forums
- sharing expertise and experience in various fields
- strategic input
- fostering community
- ongoing outreach with like-minded communities
- sharing news and industry updates

### How will this proposal change Arrow? And over what time-frame?
- The effects of a reduction in Commitment track compensation should be evident immediately in the number of applications for the new time commitment grant format. It is anticipated that many of the current commitment track contributors will renew their application, but this is a best guess.

- The largest benefit is expected to come in the form of more bounty definitions, proposals and completions from core members. It is anticipated that less funds will be required for the 'commitment track' core contributions and that this surplus can be reallocated to grants and bounties with a robust application and review process (via the GBC).

- The application and review process via an entity (GBC) should inspire more quality/thoughtfulness in proposals, as there is a real possibility that poor submissions will not get accepted, resulting in less potential monetary reward for the contributor. 

- An increase in the number of bounties and grants should lead to a situation where projects can set budgets for grants in the anticipation that the community/outside entities have an appetite for completing them. Arrow can then function as an efficient capital allocation system to fund important work.

### Other anticipated benefits of this AIP?
- Outside funding will look to see success in the number of completed grants/bounties. It will be an indicator of the DAO's ability to meaningfully scale. For reasons outlined in this AIP, a Time Commitment Grant process can effectively cover core operations whilst also opening the door for true global cooperation via publicly available grants and bounties for specific tasks.
- This AIP will incentivize contributors to clearly define deliverables and milestones stimulates good personal habits of focus and time management.
- Arrow becomes an organization familiar with thinking about how to break their projects and tasks into smaller chunks.
- It should theoretically become easier to create bounties for non-core contributor members, which is one of the key ways Arrow can scale.
- Completion of bounties should improve Arrow's global documentation (as it can now be stipulated as a requisite for payment).

### Why change naming of 'commitment track' to 'Time Commitment grant'? 
- It is useful to think of Arrow's incentives in terms of grants and bounties. The term 'Commitment track' can be confusing in an environment that uses similar definitions for the meaning of 'grants'.

- A grant has to be applied for, reviewed on its merits and accepted on the condition that there will be a fulfillment of a series pre-defined tasks. This feels more in line with how we want this application to be thought about. Perhaps the term 'track' has connotations of entitlement which is a cultural element we seek to move away from. 

## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).

