---
AIP: 2
title: Creation of Grants and Bounties Committee
description: Establishing an entity to oversee coordination and payment of bounties and grants
author: Sleety (@sl33ty)
discussions-to: https://dao.arrowair.com/t/AIP-002-discussion-creation-of-grants-and-bounties-committee/31
status: Final
type: operational
created: 2024-08-01
vote-to: https://snapshot.org/#/arrowair.eth/proposal/0x2b4cfba6a52d08a8e8baf6d1228392ea03855f0bafad61e437a1d7408caa2241)
vote-date: 2024-09-12
vote-result: Passed
---

## Abstract
This proposal seeks to establish an entity to provide coordination and payment of bounty and grant incentives within Arrow DAO. The entity will be known as the Grants and Bounty Committee (hereafter GBC). This proposal outlines the operational and governance considerations required to establish such an entity.


## Motivation
There is broad agreement in the community that Arrow should move towards more grants and bounties, following [Sleety's Document](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1v2tBo8o7kI7G1R95QEQOw2BDRZg0pYDc0xC4iNkehqc/edit?usp=sharing) and subsequent discussions. Many advantages of such a system were discussed, including more accountability and transparency regarding the work of current Arrow contributors. In addition, grants and bounties can open up opportunities for new and talented people to contribute to various DAO projects. 

Arrow as a DAO was formed with the idea that anybody in the world with the expertise and enthusiasm could contribute to the mission of making air travel accessible and affordable for all. We embrace technological advances in global coordination that enable collaboration on ambitious projects that were previously impossible. We have chosen eVTOL aircraft as necessary hardware to achieve our mission. Underpinning this is a belief that building our aircraft in public, harnessing global talent and making our hardware designs open source, will help us get there quicker. The GBC entity is required to ensure that contributions flow frequently, and in the right direction. Such an ambitious scaling attempt requires a focused and organized entity to champion its implementation and improvement.


The GBC will be DAO-elected. It will be entrusted with the coordination, assessment and payment of grants and bounties in order to harness community talent and further the goals of the DAO.

Arrow requires a GBC that can:
- inform and supply resources to help Arrow community members apply for grants and bounties
- assess and appraise applications fairly
- liaise with applicants to help achieve desired result
- embrace and foster an environment where high quality contributions are welcomed, explained and celebrated 
- reject applications that are low quality or economically unfeasible
- request improvement, resubmission of incomplete/low effort applications
- meet regularly with a clear agenda to fulfill the above duties


## Specification

### Definitions
The GBC’s chief mission SHALL be to distribute Grants and Bounties, retrospectively and prospectively, in order to harness the community’s talent to further the goals of Arrow DAO.

The GBC SHALL abide by the following definitions for grants, bounties, commitment track compensation, and retrospective awards:

**Bounty Proposals**: A proposal submitted by Arrow or an Arrow Community Member that proposes a payment for an achieved result of a specific task/project. The bounty proposal SHOULD establish the desired outcome, state an award compensation amount with a payment schedule. The bounty proposal SHOULD establish the desired outcome, state an award compensation amount with a payment schedule, and describe how interested parties can compete in the selection process for the bounty. The entity that submitted the proposal MAY or MAY NOT be the person(s) awarded the bounty contract.

**Project-Based Grant**: A proposal submitted by Arrow or an Arrow Community Member that proposes some action with an estimate of cost, milestones for deliverables and payment schedule. Grants SHALL be a set amount broken up and paid over a set period. This might be X USDC + X ARROW paid over 6 months. This contract is awarded to the entity that submitted the proposal if the grant is approved.

**Time Commitment Grant**: A proposal submitted by an individual that proposes compensation for tasks and activities deemed necessary for ongoing daily work and discussions related to critical areas of the DAO. 

**Retrospective Award**: A proposal submitted by an individual or group that proposes a payment for a previously-achieved result. The retrospective award SHOULD detail the work that was completed and the positive impacts for the DAO that would merit such an award. The entity that submitted the retrospective award proposal MAY or MAY NOT be the person(s) awarded a retrospective award for the work documented in the proposal. The retrospective award SHOULD be awarded in a blend of USDC or similar stablecoin and/or ARROW token as per Time Commitment Grant compensation guidelines (see [AIP-004](https://github.com/Arrow-air/dao-aips/blob/Add-aip-004-text/AIPs/AIP-004.md)). Calculations of ARROW token amounts SHALL NOT include expenses, which are processed as reimbursement receipts.

### Difference Between Bounties & Grants

Grants are intended to be applied for by those who are wishing to carry out the work themselves. 

Bounties are open-ended goals that could be met by anyone, including those other than the proposing party. In other words, if I believed that Arrow needed a sub-scale aircraft drone for publicity purposes and I wanted to be the one to build it, I would apply for a grant. If I instead thought Arrow needed a sub-scale aircraft drone for publicity purposes but I wanted it to be open to whoever comes up with the best plan to build it and win the contract, then I’d propose a bounty.

## Awards Process
- The GBC SHALL publish an open call for Time Commitment grant applications by the second Sunday of the first month after the successful creation of the scoring rubric (see below), with deadlines for application falling on the third Sunday of that month. Subsequent calls for Time Commitment grant applications SHALL occur every second month thereafter (bimonthly), following the same second Sunday/third Sunday of the month deadline schema.

- The GBC SHALL review Time Commitment grant applications.

- The GBC SHALL review project-based grant applications.

- The GBC SHALL review bounty proposal applications.

- The GBC MAY give retrospective USDC and ARROW token awards for previously-completed work. Such applications MAY be submitted on behalf of others rather than being self-nominated. Calculations of ARROW token amounts MUST NOT include expenses, which are processed as reimbursements.

- The GBC SHALL score applications and announce proposed recipients by the final Sunday of the month after the successful creation of the scoring rubric. Subsequent announcements of proposed recipients SHALL occur every other month (bimonthly) thereafter, following the same final Sunday of the month deadline schema.

- Prior to the first call for applications, the GBC SHALL develop one or more rubrics by which to select winning grants and bounties. The rubric(s) SHALL be publicly posted and anyone interested in participating SHALL be solicited in their development. The GBC MAY choose to develop separate rubrics for project-based grants, time commitment grants, bounties, and retrospective awards.

## Guiding Principles
- The GBC's chief mission SHALL be to approve bounty and grant applications that are of high quality and further the goals of the DAO.

- The GBC SHALL manage funds and allocate funds effectively.

- The GBC SHOULD consider its long term strategy when approving or rejecting applications.

## Assessment of Awards
- Recipients of a Time Commitment grant SHALL update the GBC in a publicly-available document about their progress on at least a monthly basis (or more if their bounty/grant specifies).

- Recipients of a Project-based grant SHALL update the GBC in a publicly-available document about their progress as agreed in grant application, or at least on a weekly basis.

- If a majority of the GBC agrees that a grant recipient is failing to provide the specified services to the DAO in a timely manner (as documented in the original application and in subsequent monthly updates), the GBC SHALL publicly announce such a decision and cease any future payments. This decision MAY be disputed by anyone through the creation of an AIP within two weeks of the GBC’s announcement. The AIP SHALL be subject to a snapshot vote.

- Any group or individual MAY submit a publicly-available document to the GBC claiming successful completion of the bounty. The GBC SHALL discuss all such applications. If a majority of the GBC agrees then the GBC SHALL announce the award of the bounty. Anyone MAY dispute the awarding of the bounty through the creation of an AIP within two weeks of the GBC’s announcement. The AIP SHALL be subject to a snapshot vote.

- Grant compensation SHALL be awarded in full upon completion of stated milestones/deliverables. It is at the discretion of the GBC whether the compensation amount can be streamed to recipients via streaming payment application.

## Conflicts of Interest
The GBC SHALL act according to these processes to minimize conflicts of interest:

- Any GBC member SHALL NOT score, vote on, or participate in GBC discussions about any retrospective award for which they are nominated. They MAY participate in the ratifying snapshot vote.

- Any GBC member who submits a grant application SHALL abstain from scoring and voting on any grants during the application period for which they are an applicant.

- They may participate in discussions involving their application for the purpose of improvement, refinement and clarification only.

- They may participate in the ratifying snapshot vote. They may also score, vote, and participate in discussions in future rounds during which their grant is ongoing, provided they have not submitted an application during that round for any new grants.


## Selection and Governance of GBC
The GBC will act according to the following:

- The GBC SHALL contain a minimum of five individuals.

- The GBC SHOULD be multidisciplinary and composed of reputable and knowledgeable community members.

- The GBC SHOULD be eligible for monetary compensation via a stipend or bounty for their time.

- For the initial selection process, 5 members SHALL be selected. A list of active and historic members of the GBC SHALL be provided in a publicly-available document [see AIP-003](https://github.com/Arrow-air/dao-aips/blob/main/AIPs/AIP-003.md).

- Arrow contributors interested in becoming inaugural members of the GBC SHOULD nominate themselves through an informal voting method on the forum and/or Discord.

- The initial nominated members SHALL be accepted by a separate snapshot vote, within two weeks of the vote result for this AIP.

- Changes to the GBC membership (e.g. member leaving) SHALL follow the same process, and new membership accepted by a snapshot vote.


## Copyright
Copyright and related rights waived via CC0. https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/
