---
AIP: 6
title: Create Projects Framework
description: Establish a framework to create and manage projects within the DAO
author: Thomas Garrison ([@thomasgarrison](https://github.com/thomasgarrison))
discussions-to: 
status: Review
type: operational
created: 2024-12-08
vote-to: 
vote-date: 
vote-result: 
---

## Abstract

This AIP proposes a framework for managing projects within the Arrow DAO. It defines what a project is, outlines the proposal process, establishes requirements for project leads, and defines the lifecycle of a project.

## Motivation

<!---
The motivation section should describe the "why" of this AIP. What problem does it solve? Why should someone want to implement this standard? What benefit does it provide to the Arrow ecosystem? What use cases does this AIP address?
-->

As the Arrow DAO continues to grow and evolve, it's essential to establish a clear and structured approach to project management. The community recognizes the need for clarity and accountability in project selection and execution. By establishing a well-defined project management process, the DAO can confidently add more projects in the future, knowing that each project has a clear direction, defined goals, and a responsible leader.

Historically, the DAO's project funding proposals have been approved with minimal review and rigor, lacking strong accountability. Additionally, there has been confusion around the concept of "pods", which has led to unclear expectations and inefficient resource allocation. This AIP aims to replace the current ad-hoc approach to project management with a well-defined framework for "projects", providing a clear understanding of what a project is, how it is proposed, and how it is managed. This, in turn, will enable the DAO to scale more efficiently and effectively.

With the shift towards using more grants and bounties, and the expansion of the DAO's focus beyond Feather, there is a growing desire to empower individuals to lead their own projects and grants. A well-defined project management process will enable project leaders to take ownership of their work, make decisions autonomously, and diligently drive their projects forward.

## Specification

### Defining a Project

A project in Arrow is a specific area of focus that clearly advances the goals and interests of the DAO as specified in AIP-008. Projects receive funding from the DAO treasury and are ultimately subject to the will of our entire community through DAO governance.

Projects in Arrow MUST have a specified leader. This can be a single person or a small group. That leader is responsible for managing the ongoing progress towards the project's area of focus on a regular basis. It is important to note that while projects do have leaders and certain deliverables to the DAO, this AIP does not specify any particular working group structure or organizational hierarchy for the contributors to any project. Beyond the requirement for a project leader, a project can take whatever organizational form the leader best thinks will serve its purpose. Projects may work best when the lead holds minimal discussions and meetings for the project as a whole and instead delegates that level of work to smaller working groups (pods/guilds) via grants and bounties.

### Documentation for Projects

A list of active and historical projects in Arrow SHALL be maintained in a public document (see AIP-007). For each project listed, this document MUST contain the following:

- A brief description of the project's goal and scope.

- The name of the project's leader(s).

- The current status of the project: [ACTIVE, STALE, COMPLETE, CANCELLED]

- A monthly spending cap for the project.

- The project’s start date

- An expiration date for the project's funding. (A template will be provided in AIP-007) Any amendments to AIP-007 MUST happen through DAO governance.

- A link to the project’s main repository

Each active project in Arrow MUST maintain a Github repository containing the project’s documentation, information notes and, when practical, the project’s outputs (technical data, 3D files, code, etc.). This repository SHALL serve as the top-level resource for all information regarding the project.

### Project Creation Process

Before being created, projects in Arrow must go through a formal vetting and approval process with the DAO governance. Committed support from the DAO at the beginning will allow projects to confidently proceed independently in their goals knowing that they already have the support of the DAO.

For someone with a project idea, the first step towards starting a new project in Arrow SHOULD be to informally vet the idea through discussions on Discord and our community calls. If the feedback seems good, then the project proposer can move forward more formally by posting the project idea on the DAO forum.

All project proposals MUST be discussed on the DAO forum prior to beginning the project or adding it to AIP-007. On the forum, the DAO SHALL discuss the project’s scope, alignment with AIP-008, budget, and timeline. Each project MUST be unique and SHOULD NOT fit within the scope of another project.

The final step to start the project is to approve an amendment to AIP-007 on Snapshot with the new project’s details. When this happens, the project is officially started.

### Project Leader Responsibilities

The project leader is the ultimate authority in managing the project in a manner to ensure that progress is being made towards the project's stated purpose. They are responsible for making project management decisions and MUST work with the GBC to issue grants and bounties for the work that the project requires. The project leader has the authority to make engineering design decisions for the project when there is disagreement. The project leader SHALL sufficiently delegate work to working groups, pods, and individuals such that the project isn’t overburdened with meetings.

The project leader MUST maintain the project in a well documented and organized state such that another leader could take over the project with minimal friction.

The project leader MUST manage the project’s budget such that the cap is not exceeded. The project leader may request an increase in the budget cap or an extension of the project’s funding when prudent by proposing an amendment to AIP-007.

Each month, the project leader MUST provide a narrative update on the project’s progress via a post to the DAO governance forum. The post SHALL be accompanied by an informal sentiment poll to gauge if the DAO is satisfied with the current progress and state of the project. A negative sentiment poll serves as feedback to the project leader to consider changing the way the project is managed, and it serves as feedback to the DAO to consider terminating the project or changing the project’s leader.

### Finances

Each project has a monthly budget cap and expiration date specified in AIP-007. At the start of each month, the DAO treasury SHALL provide the funds to each project’s wallet to bring it’s balance to the budget cap. Unspent funds each month SHALL NOT “roll over” so that the project wallet gets a balance higher than the specified cap. The DAO treasury MUST abide by the expiration dates in AIP-007 and MUST NOT fund projects beyond their expiration.

Each project’s wallet SHALL be a multisig with seats held by both the project leader and the GBC. The DAO Treasury multisig MAY hold a seat on the project multisig as an additional backup in case of lost keys or other failure by the other signers.

The project leader SHALL work with the GBC to appropriately coordinate the project’s tasks via grants and bounties. The GBC will serve as a supporter and champion for coordination while the project lead manages the project’s work and tasks.

The project leader is generally responsible for managing the project’s budget. The project leader SHALL process necessary reimbursements and other appropriate payments in a timely manner. The project leader may issue time commitment grants and other payments as they best see fit to accomplish the goals of the project.

### Replacing a Project Leader

A project’s leader may be changed at any time by amending AIP-007 via a proposal on Snapshot. This may happen if the DAO governance has lost faith in the current project leader or if the current project leader is unable or unwilling to continue managing the project.

If a project leader is ready to step down from their role as leader, they should consider their final duty to be finding and onboarding their replacement.

### Terminating a Project

A project may be terminated at any time by a ratified Snapshot proposal amending AIP-007 to update the project’s status to CANCELLED. This status overrides and cancels any previously approved funding for the project. If a project leader believes that the project is no longer serving the purposes of the DAO, they have the authority to cancel their project without going through DAO governance by notifying the DAO via the governance forum.

By default, projects will end when their funding expiration date is reached without any amendment to AIP-007 extending the expiration. When this happens, the AIP editors may update the project’s status in AIP-007 to STALE without a formal amendment via Snapshot.

Project leaders may also gracefully terminate their project upon completion of all of the stated project objectives by notifying the DAO on the governance forum. With a sentiment poll in agreement, the AIP editors may update the project’s status on AIP-007 to COMPLETE without a formal amendment via Snapshot.

##### Copyright

Copyright and related rights waived via [CC0](https://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/).
